Welcome back guys.
This video is all about creating the search template.
So a few videos ago when we created the sidebar widgets We also did a search box self-assertive solving
in the search box such as news.
You can see that it should work pretty much straight outside the box.
There's nothin we're really need to do to make that work.
But one thing we can do is give off Im a custom search template because at the moment its just default
them back to the index page which is why weve got these pretty similar layout to the blog which is fine
for an hour because we want the search page to look like the blog but will create a custom template
so we can add the feature text up the top and will also show the term in the feature section that the
user is searched for.
And also print out a statement in case has been no search results found soul oh to the sex ed new page
service as Search doppie HP.
Answer It looks pretty similar to the blog page.
Copy the contents of the index page to get started.
And paste them in and just to check that the search template is actual work in and it all right.
The index page.
Just type in some random text and were and save and then refresh.
And then I go so I can just see that the text to recreate it is at the top there.
And this means that the template is taken effect.
So in a move that now so pretty much all the work we need to do now for this template is in the functions
page.
Because we're gonna be working in the head dissection action to create the feature text So goal was
to the functions doppie HP.
And then below the four or four will add another.
ELSE IF statements.
Just on the curly racer.
So.
Else.
If.
Is on the score search.
So up the very top of the text.
We'll just do a will just do a tranquil spa official blog so copy and paste I can see that's work in.
Okay.
And below that will add a break tag.
And a semicolon under the under.
Then underneath this we're going to print out the search results or the search term that they use research
for.
Instead of Echo and the browser will want to use prints f.
Then in the brackets we're gonna start by type in some plain text.
Soul search results for a knee column.
And then to show in the result of the search query use the.
Percent.
And the.
S.
N put comma after this section and then use the Get search query function to get underscore.
Search on this score query.
And this whole thing needs to be surrounded by brackets so one before one at the very end with the semicolon.
So the reason why we are using print F instead of the Echo is because we use in form in in the search
results.
And Prince f I was still up.
So say that and check if it's working by him refresh.
I'm I can try this a few more times check it's work.
So we've got the news as is current search term So let's change it to her.
And that seems to work fine.
I will do one more.
I'll lock it in polls.
That's all just check Lorem for the lorem ipsum I'm sure get lots of post for this so that it's not
all work and fine.
So if you notice when we search for solving the for Sir Charles hair we got the error message or saw
an old posts much our criteria.
I want to make this a little bit more specific to the search rather than the posts.
So go over to the search dot P HP and scroll down to the bottom.
Until we find the error message there so just delete that and instead will add our own custom message.
Oh sorry.
No much is for an end to pull in the word that the user search for.
Would this add on to the end.
The function of.
Get a search query.
No need to concatenate some more text onto their So stub I open up the quarter again and a comma.
Or police search again.
Let's say.
Then take a look.
And an error message yes I will take a look at that.
That is a spelling mistake there.
Where shall we get search query.
So now us working we've got the error message.
So sorry no matches for into space after the word for.
Then refresh the hair please search again.
So thanks for watching.
And that's how you create a custom search page in wordpress.